# Reference

<!-- DO NOT EDIT: This document was generated by Puppet Strings -->

## Table of Contents

### Resource types

* [`acl`](#acl): Manages access control lists (ACLs).  The `acl` type is typically used when you need more complex management of permissions e.g. Windows. ACL

## Resource types

### <a name="acl"></a>`acl`

Manages access control lists (ACLs).  The `acl` type is
typically used when you need more complex management of
permissions e.g. Windows. ACLs typically contain access
control entries (ACEs) that define a trustee (identity)
with a set of rights, whether the type is allow or deny,
and how inheritance and propagation of those ACEs are
applied to the resource target and child types under it.
The order that ACEs are listed in is important on Windows
as it determines what is applied first.

Order of ACE application on Windows is explicit deny,
explicit allow, inherited deny, then inherited allow. You
cannot specify inherited ACEs in a manifest, only whether
to allow upstream inheritance to flow into the managed
target location (known as security descriptor). Please
ensure your modeled resources follow this order or Windows
will complain. NOTE: `acl` type does not enforce or
complain about ACE order.

For very specific examples, see the readme[1] and learn
about the different features of the `acl` type.

[1] https://github.com/puppetlabs/puppetlabs-acl/blob/main/README.md

**Autorequires:** If Puppet is managing the user, group or
target of an acl resource, the acl type will autorequire
them.

**Examples:**

Minimally expressed sample usage:

At a minimum, you need to provide the target and at least
one permission (access control entry or ACE). It will default
the other settings to sensible defaults.


```
  acl { 'c:/tempperms':
    permissions => [
     { identity => 'Administrator', rights => ['full'] },
     { identity => 'Users', rights => ['read','execute'] }
   ],
  }
```

Fully expressed sample usage:

If you want you can provide a fully expressed ACL. The
fully expressed acl in the sample below produces the same
settings as the minimal sample above.

```
  acl { 'c:/tempperms':
    target      => 'c:/tempperms',
    target_type => 'file',
    purge       => 'false',
    permissions => [
     { identity => 'Administrator', rights => ['full'], perm_type=> 'allow', child_types => 'all', affects => 'all' },
     { identity => 'Users', rights => ['read','execute'], perm_type=> 'allow', child_types => 'all', affects => 'all' }
    ],
    owner       => 'Administrators', #Creator_Owner specific, doesn't manage unless specified
    group       => 'Users', #Creator_Group specific, doesn't manage unless specified
    inherit_parent_permissions => 'true',
  }
```

Manage same ACL resource multiple acls sample usage:

You can manage the same target across multiple acl
resources with some caveats. The title of the resource
needs to be unique. It is suggested that you only do
this when you would need to (can get confusing). You should
not set purge => 'true' on any of the resources that apply
to the same target or you will see thrashing in reports as
the permissions will be added and removed every catalog
application. Use this feature with care.

```
  acl { 'c:/tempperms':
    permissions => [
     { identity => 'Administrator', rights => ['full'] }
   ],
  }

  acl { 'tempperms_Users':
    target      => 'c:/tempperms',
    permissions => [
     { identity => 'Users', rights => ['read','execute'] }
   ],
  }
```

Removing upstream inheritance with purge sample usage:

```
  acl { 'c:/tempperms':
    purge       => 'true',
    permissions => [
     { identity => 'Administrators', rights => ['full'] },
     { identity => 'Users', rights => ['full'] }
    ],
    inherit_parent_permissions => 'false',
  }
```

Warning: While managing ACLs you could lock the user running
Puppet completely out of managing resources using
`purge => 'true'` with `inherit_parent_permissions => 'false'`.
If Puppet is locked out of managing the resource, manual
intervention on affected nodes will be required.

#### Properties

The following properties are available in the `acl` type.

##### `group`

The group identity is also known as a trustee or principal
that is said to have access to the particular acl/security descriptor.
This can be in the form of:

 1. User - e.g. `'Bob'` or `'TheNet\\Bob'`
 2. Group e.g. `'Administrators'` or `'BUILTIN\\Administrators'`
 3. SID (Security ID) e.g. `'S-1-5-18'`.

Defaults to not specified on Windows. This allows group to stay set
to whatever it is currently set to (group can vary depending on the
original CREATOR GROUP). The trustee must exist on the system and
will auto-require on user and group resources.

##### `inherit_parent_permissions`

Valid values: ``true``, ``false``

Inherit Parent Permissions specifies whether to inherit
permissions from parent ACLs or not. The default is `true`.

Default value: `true`

##### `owner`

The owner identity is also known as a trustee or principal
that is said to own the particular acl/security descriptor. This
can be in the form of:

 1. User - e.g. `'Bob'` or `'TheNet\\Bob'`
 2. Group e.g. `'Administrators'` or `'BUILTIN\\Administrators'`
 3. SID (Security ID) e.g. `'S-1-5-18'`.

Defaults to not specified on Windows. This allows owner to stay set
to whatever it is currently set to (owner can vary depending on the
original CREATOR OWNER). The trustee must exist on the system and
will auto-require on user and group resources.

##### `permissions`

Permissions is an array containing Access Control Entries
(ACEs). Certain Operating Systems require these ACEs to be in
explicit order (Windows). Every element in the array is a hash
that will at the very least need `identity` and `rights` e.g
`{ identity => 'Administrators', rights => ['full'] }` and at the
very most can include `perm_type`, `child_types`, `affects`, and
`mask` (mask should only be specified be with
`rights => ['mask_specific']`) e.g. `{ identity => 'Administrators',
rights => ['full'], type=> 'allow', child_types => 'all',
affects => 'all' }`.

`identity` is a group, user or ID (SID on Windows). The identity must
exist on the system and will auto-require on user and group resources.
This can be in the form of:

  1. User - e.g. `'Bob'` or `'TheNet\\Bob'`
  2. Group e.g. `'Administrators'` or `'BUILTIN\\Administrators'`
  3. SID (Security ID) e.g. `'S-1-5-18'`.

`rights` is an array that contains `'full'`, `'modify'`,
`'mask_specific'` or some combination of `'write'`, `'read'`, and
`'execute'`. If you specify `'mask_specific'` you must also specify
`mask` with an integer (passed as a string) that represents the
permissions mask. It is the numeric representation of the binary
flags.

`perm_type` is represented as `'allow'` (default) or `'deny'`.

`child_types` determines how an ACE is inherited downstream from the
target. Valid values are `'all'` (default), `'objects'`, `'containers'`
or `'none'`.

`affects` determines how the downstream inheritance is propagated.
Valid values are `'all'` (default), `'self_only'`, `'children_only'`,
`'self_and_direct_children_only'` or `'direct_children_only'`.

Each permission (ACE) is determined to be unique based on
identity, perm_type, child_types, and affects. While you can technically
create more than one ACE that differs from other ACEs only in rights,
acl module is not able to tell the difference between those so it
will appear that the resource is out of sync every run when it is not.

While you will see `is_inherited => 'true'` when running
puppet resource acl path, puppet will not be able to manage the
inherited permissions so those will need to be removed if using
that to build a manifest.

#### Parameters

The following parameters are available in the `acl` type.

* [`name`](#name)
* [`provider`](#provider)
* [`purge`](#purge)
* [`target`](#target)
* [`target_type`](#target_type)

##### <a name="name"></a>`name`

namevar

The name of the acl resource. Used for uniqueness. Will set
the target to this value if target is unset.

##### <a name="provider"></a>`provider`

The specific backend to use for this `acl` resource. You will seldom need to specify this --- Puppet will usually
discover the appropriate provider for your platform.

##### <a name="purge"></a>`purge`

Valid values: ``true``, ``false``, `listed_permissions`

Purge specifies whether to remove other explicit permissions
if not specified in the permissions set. This doesn't do anything
with permissions inherited from parents (to remove those you should
combine `purge => 'false', inherit_parent_permissions => 'false'` -
be VERY careful in doing so, you could lock out Puppet from
managing the resource and manual intervention will be required).
This also allows you to ensure the permissions listed are not on
the ACL with `purge => listed_permissions`.
The default is `false`.

Default value: ``false``

##### <a name="target"></a>`target`

The location the acl resource is pointing to. In the first
release of ACL, this will be a file system location.
The default is the name.

##### <a name="target_type"></a>`target_type`

Valid values: `file`

The type of target for the Acl resource. In the first release
of ACL, only `file` is allowed. Defaults to `file`.

Default value: `file`

